 Want to speak real English from your first lesson? Sign up for your free lifetime account at EnglishClass101.com. Hi everybody, my name is Alicia and I'm joined again in the studio. Bye! Michael, hello. And today we're going to be talking about English conversation strategies. So let's get right into it. Let's start with Michael. What is your first strategy for keeping an English conversation going? This is very important. Don't say, I'm fine, thank you and you. You hear this all the time from second language English learners or non-native speakers. You learn this, it's one of the first things you learn in an English class. It's easy, it's good, it's basic, it's foundation. Okay, that's fine. But as soon as you can, switch it up. Because to me, when I meet a foreigner, they come up and if they say, hey, how are you? Say, oh, I'm fine, you know, I'm good, whatever. How about you? And they say, I'm fine, thank you and you. And it's almost robotic because I've said it so many times. And when I hear that, I think, ah, their English isn't that good. And inside, I'm just going to be really polite and say, hello and talk slowly and try to get out of there as quick as I can. So really impress the foreigner, in my opinion, I think the best way to do it is say something, you know, use a big word or just like a slang word, something like that. When I hear that, I go, wow, man, I want to know what this person thinks. I want to get their point of view and I'm really excited. And then I've had great conversations because of that. Yeah, that's a really, really good one. And actually, I think on this YouTube channel, actually, from a couple years ago, there's a video all about better answers to the question, how are you? Then I'm fine, thank you, and you. Or if someone says, hey, how are you? I'm good, you are fine, you. Never, I'm fine, thank you, and you. Never. But try to actually use, you know, afraid for the native speaker would use. And then that's a clue to the native speaker that, oh, maybe this person is ready for a conversation beyond, you know, basic English. So that's a really good point. I like that. I didn't think of things not to do. I only thought of things to do. So, okay. Cool. Let's see. Let's go to my first one. So the strategy in general, just ask the other person a question. I think, and I'm guilty of this too when I'm learning another language, I tend to only get input. Like somebody else is always asking me the questions, and then I forget myself to ask the other person a question. So one question that I like to ask, or, you know, a variation, any kind of WH question is good, like a who question, what, where, something like this, if you've been paying attention, you can use any way to transition in your conversation. This was in a previous video. You can ask something like, anyway, up to anything fun this weekend. This is a pretty casual conversational question that you can ask just about anybody, whether you've just met them or whether you've known them for a while, but just get in the habit of asking other people the question. Don't wait for someone else to ask you the question. So that's one strategy that I try to use to keep things going. Yeah, me too. I agree. And I'm going to say same Z's because actually two of my questions were exactly what you said. I agree 100%. This is kind of cheating. These should be one. So always ask questions. So, you know, again, you forget it's really easy. I'm really guilty of this. English, non-English, whatever. I'm guilty of this. And the other thing is ask deep, open-ended questions. So if you ask a yes or no question, so again, like Alicia was saying, it just deadens. You can't just say, you know, do you like cheese? Yes, or no, right? So you want to say, what do you think about cheese? What is your favorite kind? And kind of open it up to something else and let it just kind of snowball. Right. Right. Yeah, I think that that's really a key. I have another variation on it, which I guess I'll just continue on to because it kind of relates to what you're talking about. Like he's saying always ask questions, always ask deep, open-ended questions. So like you just said, don't ask a yes or no question because yes or no ends with the yes or the no. So one of the things that I'll do is use a pattern similar to this. And more or less, like, hey, did you see or hey, did you hear about blah, blah, blah. So you can use this little blah, blah, blah as you're, you can ask about the news. You can ask about something funny you saw on the internet. You can ask about, you know, something that you heard from another friend of yours, whatever. It's just a way to check in with the other person and say, oh, did you also experience this thing that I experienced? Let's talk about that. So that might be another question that you can use with people. I really like that one because you got to stay within people's comfort zone. So maybe you ask and maybe they don't want to, right? So a good thing is did you hear about it? That's up to them. Maybe they don't want to talk about it. They can say, oh, yeah, I heard about that. And you can kind of feel the atmosphere and realize, maybe I shouldn't talk about this, change the subject or they get passionate and they start talking about it. And there you go and just let it go. Yeah, absolutely. One thing, again, I'm guilty of is you do got to keep, keep returning it. Don't let it, don't just say, oh, yeah, and what I think about that bring it back, ask them, what about you? That's a common thing I forget about. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Good. I have one more. This one, um, use when you see fits. Don't I guess just, okay, I'll just introduce it. Complement the other person or compliment the other person. This can be a nice strategy just to show that you're enjoying the other person's company. It can be as simple as, oh, I like your shirt today or oh, that's a nice dress you're wearing today or oh, did you get a new haircut that looks good on you? Something like that. So this is a nice, a nice way to make the other person maybe wants to spend more time with you. I think. Yeah, I agree 100% two things. One, I think it's a good conversation starter sometimes. If you've got to be careful with the stranger, it can be creepy. It can be a little uncomfortable. What you're complimenting, right? But if it's something like if they have a t-shirt and it's a band that you both like, that's a great conversation starter and you feel wow or connected, you know, number two. The second thing I was thinking about is that keep it honest. I love, I love a sincere compliment. It really means a lot more and it really does butter them up kind of. Get them open to having more conversations deeper that kind of thing. But one of the things people do, which I don't like is let's say they say, hey, nice shirt. And then the person out of habit will say, oh, you too, I like your shirt too. Just my opinion, I don't think this feels really natural. Doesn't really feel sincere. So I would, I would save it. Make a mental note and go, hmm, I need to return the favor. I need to give them a compliment. But wait until you notice something you really do like and say, hey, actually, I love blah, blah, blah. Yeah, I think that's a great point. Like when you, you can sense whether someone is being sincere or not. What is your next strategy for continuing the English conversation? Well, don't be afraid to open up. I like this one. I think this is good. A lot of people will be kind of shy. They won't open up too much. Again, within, within your comfort zone, but I like this one because people will return the favor because if you're just having small talk and you say, you know, the weather's nice today, blah, blah, blah. You can only go so far. So don't be afraid to say something personal. Again, trust your judgment. Don't be a creeper. Don't go. We don't want to hear certain things about your life. Don't be a creep. Don't be a creep. Don't be weird. Don't be strange. And like what you're saying about opening up open up is just a phrase that means share something about yourself. So it can be as simple as what you did last weekend or what you're going to do this weekend or a project that you have coming up. It doesn't mean that you have to spill all of your life secrets to the other person. But just showing that you're willing to share something more personal about yourself can help ingratiate yourself or can help, you know, make the other person help the other person understand you a little bit better. That's a good tip. That's hard to do though. It's hard. It's a little bit scary. I think to share parts of yourself, but it's been a bit of people and they've been. All right, I think that's all. Is that all that you have? Yeah, that's all I got. All right, well, those are some interesting strategies to keep an English conversation going. So give them a try if you're ever at a loss for words and don't know what to say. You can try one of these strategies and hopefully it will help you out. Please let us know if you have any other strategies or anything else that you would like to use or you try to use when you are having trouble keeping a conversation going. Leave us a comment and let us know what it is. Top 10 language learning strategies. Let's begin. The funding or dating someone who speaks English. Watching movies or listening to music in English. Read English newspapers or magazines. Record your voice and compare your pronunciation with native English speakers. Download dialogue tracks and listen to English conversations. Repeat the phrases that you hear out loud again and again. Review all the lessons on EnglishClass101.com to master them completely. Read lines slowly at first, then reread and increase your speed. Set small and measurable learning goals with your personal deadlines. Try harder lessons to challenge yourself and improve faster. And ways to stop translating in your head. Let's get started. Identify objects around you in English. The first way to stop translating in your head is to identify the objects around you in your target language. So if you are studying English, that means you look at the objects around the room. Look at the things in your life. Don't think of them in your native language first. Think of them in your target language first. So if I look around the room, I see a computer, I shouldn't think my native language word. I should think my target language word. So start with the items and the situations in your everyday life. If I say computer in English, maybe I should say computer in Japanese. I should say not, I don't know, water in English. I should say omizu in Japanese. So start associating the words in your target language with your everyday life now. So if you're studying English, that means start getting familiar with the things in your everyday life in English. Repeat phrases you hear native speakers use. Tip number two is to repeat the phrases that you hear native speakers use. So if you're watching this channel for example, or you're watching a TV show or a movie, listen for the way that native speakers make those phrases. If you hear a phrase you have never heard before, or you hear an interesting combination of words, try to repeat them yourself. Don't just listen. Try to save them yourself. If you're in a public space and it's difficult for you to do that, find practice in a place where you feel more comfortable, maybe if you have some private space to practice. Just repeat them. Get your mouth used to saying the words the way that the speakers, the native speakers do. So if you never actually say words, if you're only taking in, if you're only listening, and you're not actually producing the language, it's kind of hard to practice and to really hone your pronunciation, to improve your pronunciation. So when you listen to native speakers, try to repeat after them. So for example, if you're studying English, you can try to repeat after this video. You can repeat after the things I'm saying, because maybe I'm using an expression, or I'm using a certain series of vocabulary words together, the way a native speaker would. And it's maybe a good idea to try to practice the ways that native speakers put their words together. So try to repeat after native speakers, especially when you're looking at media. And you can do this when you're reading books too. You can try to read out loud, interesting lines of books that you find, or something that maybe is difficult for you. Very nice practice to make. Make a situation where you can't escape into your native language. Make a situation where you can't escape into your native language essentially means immerse yourself. Of course, going to that country or going to a place where you can speak only that language is very difficult for some of you totally understand. But if in your life you can create a situation in your library, in your room, in your house, somewhere for just an hour, or I don't know, maybe a day, I don't know what your schedule is like. But if you can create a situation or create an environment where you have no choice but to use that language, and you cannot escape, meaning you cannot go back to using your native language as a crutch. You can't use the native language at all. It forces you to use the language that you're studying. So of course, if you are lucky enough to live in the country or to live in a place where people speak the language you're studying, great. But you have to go out and interact with people. You have to put yourself in a place where you have no choice but to speak. It's very hard and it's very scary and it's very embarrassing at first. But if you take time to find places and to make environments that are comfortable for you, where you feel comfortable making mistakes and asking questions, it's very valuable for your learning process. This is actually something that I did totally. I totally did this. My Japanese wasn't very good for a long time, but then I started making friends who could not speak English. Actually, I just did this through finding hobbies. There was a hobby that I had. I joined a group. I joined actually a school to where I could learn how to do that hobby. Everything was taught only in Japanese. The people in my class only spoke Japanese mostly. Maybe we would go off for drinks and food late at night or on the weekends. Everybody spoke only Japanese. If I couldn't communicate even simply in Japanese, I had no hope of keeping that friendship together. It forced me to study. It forced me to think about the words they were using and to try to learn those words, those patterns, as well as how to produce them naturally myself. I was learning the vocabulary words. The people around me were using and learning how to apply them on my own. That was only possible because I had no escape in those situations. I tried to do that, even if you can do it yourself in your house. It's super helpful, I think. Watch TV and movies in your target language without subtitles. Tip number four is to watch TV and movies in your target language without subtitles. I think that watching with subtitles can be very beneficial. If you want to watch something with subtitles on, great. I sometimes find that I can, in my case, I think too much about reading the subtitles and I forget to listen. So maybe if you've seen a movie in your target language a few times with the subtitles on, try turning the subtitles off. Think about the character's body language, the words they're using. You can always look that up later. Look up the words you don't know in a dictionary. But try to do it where you're focusing completely on the way that people are using their words. Try not to use the subtitles. Play around with it a little bit. If there's a word that's difficult for you to hear, you can actually turn on the subtitles in the native language of the movie as well. That's something that I've done. If I wanted to study Japanese, it's very useful when the actual words spoken in Japanese appear on the screen. Sometimes it's easier for me to catch a word if I see it visually and I hear it at the same time. So another way to explore how you can use TV and movies is to actually turn on the closed captions, like the words on the screen, in the native language of the movie. So this is sort of two points in one. One, watch movies without subtitles, meaning subtitles in your native language. In hint two is to watch movies with closed captioning on, but the closed captioning is in your target language, not in your native language. So you can try those two things with TV and with movies. Don't bring a dictionary to your lesson. Tip number five is don't bring a dictionary to your lesson. Okay. So give me a second here. So I understand the dictionaries, especially electronic dictionaries. We have them on our phones now are very, very convenient. Of course it's important to use them and they're a great resource to have. However, one thing that really bothers me and that I think is detrimental, it's not helpful for students. So what I think is that the most important thing is that the language of the language of the language is that the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the personal language that you live with the language of the language. and it has your native language next to it. While this can be useful, I feel that if you can studying your materials only in your target language and then simplified explanations for more detailed points, also in your target language can be a little bit better. So I don't want to say like you should only study things in your target language and nothing from your native language because of course it can be helpful sometimes to look up a word or to understand a grammar point in your native language. But where possible if you can find something that provides simplified explanations in your target language, it can be really, really helpful because again, you're thinking, you're learning to think on like a simpler on a more basic level about the language you're studying in the language that you're studying. So this can be really, really good. So finding some materials to use where there's no translation, maybe you can practice of course with books and with written materials, but also with like video materials as well. So there are a variety of different ways that you can find materials in your target language like in video and TV. So some things to think about there are the level of vocabulary words people are using in the media content you're watching, who the media content is intended for. Children, young adults, adults, the speed at which the speaker is talking. So I have the ability to change the level of difficulty of videos based on the rate of speech, the vocabulary words that I use and how many idioms and things I use. So I could make a video very difficult. We could make a very difficult video series by leveling up our vocabulary use or by speaking very quickly. Or as you might see in our English and three minute series, we can also use very simple vocabulary and speak at a low rate of speech. So maybe right now this is a very intermediate level video. So please think about that. So not just for written materials, but also for your audio and visual materials. Think about who your audience is, the level of the material and so on. It can be really fun and it can be helpful to think about your target language in your target language. All right, we're almost done. Study phrases in addition to single vocabulary. The next tip is study phrases in addition to single vocabulary words. So yes, of course vocabulary is important, but I find it personally very, very useful to look at how a vocabulary word is used in a phrase. Because sometimes using it in a phrase helps you understand the nuance of that vocabulary word really, really well. So if I, like a word like crazy, for example, in English, depending on the situation where the word crazy is used, it could mean something different. It could mean like a person who is mentally confused or mixed up. It could also mean something really good. It could mean something really bad. So if we look only at the word crazy, it's quite difficult to understand really the meaning of the word. But if you look at the way the word is used in a phrase, you can get a lot more information. So take a look at the way people use words in phrases, not just as single vocabulary words. You can learn a lot more that way, I think. Do your daily activities in English, where possible? The next tip is to do your daily activities in your target language. So if you're studying English, that means trying to do some daily activities in English, if possible. So this can be very, very boring stuff, but just think about it when you're doing the activity. So like right now, I'm filming a video for EnglishClass101.com or I'm going to work. I'm cooking breakfast. I'm doing the laundry. What do I have to do tomorrow? So try thinking about your everyday life in English if you're studying English. Try thinking about your everyday activities, the people that you meet. What are you doing? So this is a way to help you practice your verbs. So if you don't know, if you're, I don't know, you're doing something at work and you're like, oh my gosh, how do I explain the, what's the verb for a picture? Like I want to, blah, blah, blah, a picture. What's the word? You can check a dictionary at that point and go, oh, it's draw. I need to use the verb draw for draw a picture. So you can find these little gaps in your everyday life, these little gaps in your knowledge. If you think about your everyday activities in your target language, if you don't think about it in your target language, you might not realize you have vocabulary gaps or phrase gaps here and there. So this is a really good and kind of funny, actually, way to study. Use a learner's dictionary for new words. The last tip is to use a learner's dictionary for new words. So in English, there are learner's dictionaries available in English. So my favorite, my personal favorite is Mariam Webster. Mariam Webster is a fantastic dictionary resource. They're so interesting and they have tons of like historical information. I really do just sit and read things on the dictionary page lately. It's true. But of course, there's a definition. There's a meaning for word. There are example sentences for words. But Mariam Webster also has what's called a learner's dictionary. If you find a word that you don't recognize, you can check it in a dictionary and a learner's dictionary. And it gives you a simplified, a simple explanation in simple English of that word. So instead of checking it in your native language, you can check it in your target language. So again, this helps you to understand the word that you're focused on. But you understand it from the language you're studying, not from your native language. So using a learner's dictionary can be really, really useful as well. All right. Want to get cheat sheets, audio books, lessons, apps, and much more every month? For free, just click the link in the description to get your free language gifts of the month. 10 ways to report speech. Let's go. Say. The first word is say. Say as a verb. Say is a very neutral word you can use to report someone's speech to explain something someone said in the past. So for example, he said the barbecue was canceled. Which is a simple neutral report. Tell. The next verb is tell. Tell is used when one person is giving information to another to tell someone something they did not know before. Don't say tell me your phone number, that's weird. But like, can you tell me where the station is? Can you tell me where to buy a hamburger? Can you tell me where to pick up my new car? So giving someone information they don't know or on the other hand, explaining something one way to another person. So don't tell me what I can't do is a very good lost reference if you've ever watched lost. So tell. Another example sentence. My boss told me I was doing a good job. Speak. The next one is speak. Speak. So we use speak when we're talking about language ability. Like I speak English, I speak Japanese. We can use speak in the past tense to report something. But it usually sounds a little more formal. So like I spoke to my boss about or I spoke to my parents about or I spoke to my boyfriend or girlfriend about blah, blah, blah. That using speak instead of talked makes it sound a little bit more formal. So you can use speak, but it's going to sound polite. In his sentence, my colleague spoke with me about an upcoming project. Was like, okay, the next one, the next two actually are very, very casual expressions. So when you're speaking with friends and you're kind of talking about a quick, maybe somewhat emotional conversation, you will hear native speakers, especially Americans. Perhaps this is unique somewhat to Americans. Use the phrase was like, I was like, he was like, she was like, this is a very casual way to report speech. And you'll hear it often very, very quickly together. So someone will say, I was like, what? And then she was like, no. And then I was like, yeah, that's the kind of pattern you'll hear it in. Very, very quick ways to report speech, but the subject changes. I was like, he was like, she was like, we were like, this is a way to share what happens quickly. Instead of, I said, he said, she said, which might sound a little too formal. We can use, I was like, he was like, to do that instead. So this is a really fun one. And if you can use this naturally, I think that it'll really help you sound more natural too. So in his sentence, and then he was like, I love that movie, was all. The next one is also similar to was like, we have the expression was all. So was all, don't worry about all. All does not have the meaning of the whole of something or a complete something. Instead was all, this set phrase is used to report speech. Usually this one is used when there's some kind of emotional aspect to your conversation. Or it's a little dramatic, or maybe a little exciting. We use it the same way as was like in that very, very quick style of speaking. And then he was like, and I was all, and then she was like, and I was all, we use those together. But I was all has a little more emphasis. I feel I tend to use it when I want to express a stronger emotion. And I was all, no way, or I was all, what? So you can use it for those very like surprised emotions, or maybe angry emotions, was like and was all, are both used in very casual situations. So in a sentence, and I was all, oh my God, me too. Talk. The next word is talk. So talk, similar to say, is a fairly neutral verb when reporting speech. You'll use it in a situation where someone is giving new information to you. But maybe it's a two way conversation. So for example, we talked about blah, blah, blah for a topic, or my boss talked to me about blah, blah, blah. So maybe new information is being exchanged, but the conversation is two way. There are multiple participants. With tell, it's like the nuance is sort of one person is reporting information, giving information. With talk, there's an exchange happening there. So keep in mind, when you use the word talk, you will say either I talked to or I talked with someone. And then you'll usually have a topic. So I talked to my friend about blah, blah, blah. I talked to my friend about my new apartment. I talked to my boss about a raise. I talked to my boss, no, I talked to my dog about what dogs do. So there's some kind of, there's some kind of exchange happening there. You'll need to use two or with when you're referring to the person or entity you're talking to, and you'll use about to refer to the subject. So you can use this one, yeah, when you want to discuss exchanges of information. So in a sentence, she talked to me about my family. Mention. Let's go to the next one. The next one is mention. Mention is used when like something, there's just one small point in a conversation. Just a little side note, or maybe it's not the focus of a conversation, but just something someone says quickly, or there's just a little thing that you hear. Oh, you mentioned something about blah, blah, blah, or you mentioned that a new project. It's maybe not the focus of the conversation, but something that you heard a little bit about. That's when we use the verb mention. We can also use it in a statement, like please mention any skills you have on a resume. So the nuance is sort of like just a little bit of information is when we use mention. So in a sentence, our manager mentioned upcoming changes at the company to go on and on. Okay, the next expression is to go on and on. So to go on and on means just to talk for a very long time. So maybe you have a coworker or a friend or a family member that just talks and does not stop talking. We say to go on and on. That's the expression we use. So in a sentence, the speaker at the seminar was going on and on about the topic. If you really want to emphasize it, you can say it was going on and on and on and on and on and on. Really emphasizes that the person continues to speak. So if you know somebody who does that a lot, you can use this expression to talk about them. According to the next expression here is according to. According to is used actually in the news or like to officially report something. So according to sources or according to the police, according to the government official, according to my teacher, according to my mother, these are like direct reports of information and their direct reports of information from a specific source. So according to the newspaper, my neighborhood has 50,000 amazing ramen shops. That's not true. But if I want to, instead of just saying my neighborhood has 50,000 amazing ramen shops, I'm giving a source for that. So according to my newspaper, this is where I got the information. So this is important to use in news and newspapers and any kind of official documentation you will see in here according to in these cases. In a sentence, according to a witness at the scene, the suspect escaped. Report. Great. So the next one is report. So report. So similar to according to, we use report in more official situations. So to officially share information, like to report to the police, to report to your teacher, to report to your boss. Sometimes it means to submit documentation, like to give someone a written report. Sometimes it's to share information officially, just with your voice, to report news or to report an update. So when you want to give official information, we'll use the verb report. So in a sentence, sources in the area report that the accident was not serious. Thank goodness. All right. Top 10 must know phrases for the restaurant. Let's get started. A table for three please. A table for three please. You tell them the number of people that you are total so that the host can bring you to an appropriate table. A table for two please. A table for five please. Could I please see a menu? Could I please see a menu? Usually menus are given to you as soon as you sit down at your table. But if that's not the case and you need to ask, this is a polite way to do it. Could I please see a menu? I'd like to try this dish. I'd like to try this dish. When looking at a menu, hopefully you'll find something you want to eat. I'd like to try this dish. Could you leave out the onions? Could you leave out the onions? If there's an ingredient in the dish that you're ordering that you don't want, you can always ask the waiter if it could be prepared without that ingredient. So for example, I might say, could I get the burger but with no cheese? Could you pass the salt? Could you pass the salt? When you're at a restaurant, especially if you're at a big table with a lot of people, you might not always be able to reach things. So you would ask, could you pass me the salt? Could you pass me the ketchup? Could you pass me another napkin? Waiter, waiter, a waiter is someone who takes your order and brings you food. In America and in many other Western countries, it's more polite to call a waiter to your table by simply saying, excuse me, or if you see another waiter walking by but it's not your waiter, you can always say, excuse me, if you see our waiter, could you please let them know to come to our table? Can we get separate checks? Can we get separate checks? This is actually something that's very common, especially in America. If you might go out with a group of friends, or even if you're on a date, sometimes you might want to get separate checks, pay for your own things. That way you can all pay separately just for what you yourself ordered and you won't have to worry about owing each other money or calculating off a big huge bill. Are there any specials today? Are there any specials today? A special at a restaurant is a dish that isn't usually on the menu. It's something that's special, but it's a special that the chef is offering that day or that week or that month. So sometimes if you don't see what the specials are, you'd ask your waiter, excuse me, are there any specials today? Could we have the bill please? Could we have the bill please? This is how you request that the check or the bill comes to your table. Could we get the check please? Could we get the bill please? You're asking this to your waiter who will then bring you the check and you can pay. Pen words that you can use at a bar. Let's go. To buy a round. The first expression is to buy a round. To buy a round means to buy a round of drinks essentially. A round of drinks means one drink for everyone in your group. One drink for everyone in your party. By the way, the word party is used to mean group at a bar or restaurant. The number of people in your party is the number of people in your group. So to buy a round means to buy a drink for everybody. In a sentence, our boss began the party by buying everyone around. In a different sentence, you're buying the next round. On the rocks. The next expression is on the rocks. On the rocks is a way to order a drink. When you say on the rocks, it means your drink on ice only. So rocks are the ice in your glass. So you can imagine the ice, the pieces of ice in your glass, the ice cubes or an ice ball. These are like rocks. So saying, I'd like whiskey. For example, on the rocks means just whiskey. Served over ice. That's what on the rocks mean. So in a sentence, I'd like a gin on the rocks. Straight up. The next expression is straight up. So a straight up drink is different from an on the rocks drink. A straight up drink is chilled with ice, but it's strained. So there's no ice in the drink, but it has been chilled with ice. So a straight up drink, there's nothing else in the glass, but it is a chilled drink. In a sentence, I'd like a martini straight up. Some people use the word straight or straight up, but they mean neat, which is the next word we're going to talk about. So keep in mind, straight or straight up means chilled. That's one of the key points here. So yeah, a martini straight up is a chilled martini. Neat. So the next expression is neat. To order a drink neat means the drink is not chilled and there is no ice. It's just the alcohol. It's just the liquor. There's nothing special about it. A neat drink is only the drink. That's it. Nothing happens to it. So in a sentence, I'd like a whiskey, neat. Pined. Half pined. The next expression is really two expressions. These are words you use when you order beer. They are pint and half pint. Depending on the country that you live in, pint can be a different size. They vary by a few milliliters depending on the country where you live in. A half pint then is roughly half of the pint size. So a half pint and a pint are two ways, two sizes we use to order beer. In a sentence, can I have a half pint of this stout? Chaser. The next expression is chaser. So a chaser is something you use to follow an alcoholic drink. Chasers are often used after shots. So shots are small drinks that are usually kind of strong in alcohol content and they have a very strong taste. So some people like to have something after that. They call it a chaser. So the image is that the second drink is chasing the first drink into your body. You can think of it that way. The chaser is a non-alcoholic drink. So it could be water, it could be soda, it could be something like that juice, maybe. So chaser. In a sentence, shots of tequila are often followed with chasers. To be tipsy. The next word is to be tipsy. To be tipsy is a way to describe your feeling when you're drinking. So if you can imagine when you're standing straight up, when you're standing as regular, you're very like confident and tall and you don't move very much. But if you feel tipsy, this comes from the verb to tip, like this. So something tips to one side or another. Think of your body in this way. So we use the word tipsy, the adjective tipsy, to describe this feeling. Maybe you're not so steady on your feet. You could tip over. Ah! At any time, that's called being tipsy from alcohol. Okay. Well, in a sentence, let's see, I'm a little tipsy. I need some water to be drunk. The next expression is to be drunk. So we talked about the word tipsy. So tipsy is a little bit like a little unsteady, but drunk is just a mess. You're just a disaster. You're being noisy, you're being loud. It's difficult to control your body or your friend's body, whatever. So drunk is usually seen as a negative thing. So yeah, so drunk expresses, yeah, it's just not pretty sometimes. So in a sentence, your friend is drunk. Let's take him home. To call it a night. The next expression is to call it a night. To call it a night means to decide to finish at the bar. To go home. You're ready to be done. So here I'm going to call it. I'm going to say, this is tonight. Tonight is finished. So in a sentence, it's been a long evening. I'm going to call it a night. I mean, I'm going to go home. I'm done. It's a casual expression. Hangover. And then one more that you can use maybe the day after you visit a bar is hangover. So a hangover is a noun. Hangover is the word we use to describe the feelings after drinking too much. So maybe you feel sick to your stomach. You have a headache. Your body is sore. There are a number of different feelings. You might have when you feel hungover. To be hungover is another way to say it. But when you have a hangover, it usually doesn't feel very good. In a sentence, I have a hangover today. I'm not going drinking tonight. About the top 25 English phrases. So let's get started. The first phrase is hello. Hello, of course, is used as a greeting. You can reach your friends. You can reach your coworkers. Your family with this phrase just by saying hello. Hey, hi, what's up? Hello. So, yo, pretty much any time of day you can use hello. Hello. The next phrase is good morning. Good morning is used as a greeting in the morning. You can kind of feel when morning ends for you. Good morning is nice and polite. Or even just morning with your close friends or close coworkers. The next phrase is good nights. Good night is fine. We don't use this to greet other people. We use it when we're saying goodbye to other people at night. Family members, particularly mothers and fathers, to say good night to their children before they put them to bed. You can say it to your friend in a text message or in an email if you've been talking for a while. Good night. So the next word to talk about is goodbye. Use it when you say goodbye to your friends. When you leave your friends. Goodbye. Bye, of course. Take care. Have a nice day. Peace out. That's another way to say goodbye. Okay, the next phrase is I'm plus your name. Of course, this is a way to introduce yourself. You can use I'm in my case, Alicia. I'm Alicia to introduce yourself in any situation. New friend, I'm Alicia. Okay, the next phrase is what's your name? What's your name is used to ask someone else? What their name is? So what is your name? Sounds a bit, try to use what's your name? If you forget someone's name, you can say sorry. What's your name? Or sorry, what's your name again? Next phrase is nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Anytime you meet someone new. Nice to meet you is fine. Good to meet you is a little more casual. Great to meet you. Sounds very excited. Pleasure to meet you. Sounds like maybe a formal situation or a business context. Okay, the next phrase is how are you? How are you? It's just a friendly way to check in with the other person. You can use it with friends, your family, your coworkers, maybe even your boss, to a certain degree. How are you? How you doing? The next phrase is I'm fine, thanks. And you, if you saw English in three minutes, we talked a lot about this phrase. Instead of I'm fine, thank you. And you say I'm good, thanks. How are you? Just shorten it, make it a little bit more natural. How are you? Good. How are you? Great. How are you? Not so good. How are you? Okay. And so on. So when someone says how are you, offer, I usually say I'm good. This week I blah, blah, blah. Give some information about what you've been up to. Maybe a hobby, something that you did recently. An event, something interesting you saw, whatever. People want to make that connection with you, and it's a good chance for you to continue speaking. The next word is please, please, is a polite phrase used when you want something from someone else. You can use this as a response when someone offers you something like in a restaurant, for example, would you like more water, would you like something to drink? Oh, please. The next phrase is thank you. Thank you is used to express your appreciation. You can use thank you with everybody. The next phrase is your welcome, your welcome. When someone says thank you, you can say you're welcome. No biggie, I use no biggie, as in no biggie is short for no big problem. The next word is yes, yes. Of course, yes means is any positive expression? Someone asks you a question and the answer is a positive answer. You say yes, yep, uh-huh, yeah, we. No. Next, I'm guessing I know it. Yep, the next word is no. No is a negative response to something when you have to give a negative answer. So as you can probably guess, the long form of no is negative. I like to use nope, it's very, very casual. Not gonna happen. My parents would use that with me. To soften that a little bit, if you want to show a negative response to something, like let's go for dinner tonight, what do you wanna do? Like do you wanna go out? Not really. No, I don't think so. To soften it. The next word is okay, okay. This word comes from copy editors, okay. When they had to check a manuscript, they had to label the manuscript all clear, AC, but because they were copy editors and they have a very, very six sense of humor, they thought they would market okay for all clear to make a joke because O and K do not start all and clear. But it caught on among everybody in the world. Anyway, okay, is used to agree with somebody else. Well, it can be used actually to express a positive or kind of a slight negative by feel. Transitioning in your conversation, you can say, okay, now we're going to talk about blah, blah, blah. Okay, the next phrase is excuse me. It's used to get someone's attention in English when you don't know the other person. For example, in a store, a supermarket, maybe a stranger on the street, you need to ask directions. You can use excuse me. You can use excuse me in the supermarket. Excuse me. Can you tell me where the hot sauce is? If you've done something rude in public, you can use excuse me. I personally do not do rude things in public ever. I'm sorry is the next word we're gonna talk about. I'm sorry is used to apologize when you have made a mistake or someone you know is made a mistake and you're connected to it or you just feel bad, you can use I'm sorry. You made a mistake at work. I'm sorry. You forgot to feed your cat. I'm sorry. Sorry about that. You bump someone next to you. Oh, sorry. What time is it is the next phrase when you need to check what time it is? What time is it? When you ask someone else what time it is, maybe you say this to yourself too. Check your watch, check your phone, check a clock, pretty straightforward phrase. There aren't really any short versions. So that's an easy one. Where is the plus a location? So you can use this for a building or a store. We're not gonna use this where is the for a place, a city name or a state name or a country name. To do that you would need to remove the, but where is the bank? Where is the post office? You can use this to ask directions, to ask for help in your house or at work. Where is the copy machine? Where is the file I need? Where is the blah blah blah? Where is the bathroom? Is perhaps a very important question to know. The next one is may I use the restroom? May I use the restroom is a polite and soft expression that you can use if you need to use the toilet, you need to use the washroom. When you're at someone's house for the very first time, when you're in a place that is new to you, you can ask may I use the restroom? More casually, can I go to the bathroom? To be very polite you could say may I go to the bathroom? The next phrase is I would like to order something. You can use this at a restaurant probably or in any situation where you need to place an order. I'd like a pizza. I'd like a beer. Can I get the check please? This will be used at a restaurant. When you've finished your meal and it's time to go, can I get the check please? In a very, very casual situation, you can just say, check please, that's fine. The next phrase is see you soon. See you soon is used with friends and family members perhaps. When you expect to see them again soon after saying goodbye to them, this is used at the end of the conversation. You're going separate direction. See you soon. See ya is also good or just see you. To make it a little more formal you can say, I'll see you again soon. Make a full sentence out of it that way. The next phrase is see you later. See you later is very similar to see you soon, but the point is with see you later is that you're probably going to meet that person again later on in the same day. The last phrase is really, really is a very useful word because you can use it to show you are interested in a conversation with upward intonation. Really, really tell me more. Or to show that you're not so interested in the conversation with downward intonation really. So there are many other words that you can use similar to really in this way, like seriously, or oh, oh, and so on. So it's a really good practice for your intonation. A ways to say hi, this should be fun. Let's get started. First is yo. This one is a little bit casual in case you couldn't tell. I used for close friends, maybe family members, if you have kind of a silly relationship with them. Just quick, short, easy to do. In a sentence, yo, how's it going? Howdy. Howdy traditionally associated with cowboy culture, I suppose. You should play a banjo, maybe, or you've just gotten up a horse. I don't know. I use howdy from time to time. Howdy. Howdy. Howdy. Howdy. Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh. That was my banjo. Yeah, in a sentence, you might say, howdy folks. Welcome to the barbeque place. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Next is hey. Hey is good, friendly phrase. You can usually use hey with a wave and smile. Look happy. If you don't, people might think that you're down in the dumps. People might think you're not in a very good mood. In a sentence, hey, I heard you got engaged last week. Congratulations. Something like that. It's usually kind of a cheery, happy expression. All right. Next is what's up? What's up is the long form of sup. This does not literally mean what is above you right now. If you want to be funny, you can say the ceiling or the sky. But that joke gets old really fast, and chances are the person you're talking to has already heard it before. It just means what are you up to? What is going on with you? In a sentence, what's up? Did you have a good weekend? Typical response to what's up is not much. Find out some more responses in English in three minutes. We did an episode on this. Nothing much. How about you? That's pretty good. Pretty good. Pretty good. Pretty good. I don't know what I'm doing. The next one is long time no see. You can use this when you haven't seen the other person for a long time. You're at a party, you're at an event, or whatever. Anytime it's been a long break, you can decide how long long is, not the day before or the week before, maybe a few weeks or a month, whatever's unusual for you and this other person. When you see them, you can say, hey, a long time no see, how have you been? 10 words for talking about beauty and skincare. So let's begin. All right, the first word is makeup. Makeup is all makeup. Everything we're going to talk about, almost everything we're going to talk about later is makeup. Makeup is usually used by women, but maybe men use makeup too. Makeup is usually put on the face to change the appearance of the face in some way. So in a sentence, I use makeup almost every day, or I wear makeup almost every day. Use and wear are both okay. The next word is eye shadow. So eye shadow is makeup which goes on top of the eye. So the eyelid, this part is called your eyelid. Eye shadow goes here on top of the eyelid. So in a sentence, what kind of eye shadow do you use? The next word is eye liner, eye liner. So eye liner is used to draw a line to draw lines near the eyes. That means it's safe to use near eyes. It depends on the person in their style, but maybe they use eye liner to make lines in different ways on their face, on near their eyes. In a sentence, eye liner is really difficult to put on. Okay, the next word is lip stick, lip stick. There's also lip gloss too. Lip stick is kind of the traditional, just like a single color. You apply it just on your lips and it gives, I don't know, not sometimes shiny, sometimes a very neutral, I don't know, depends on the lipstick. Lip gloss gives lips like this very glossy, almost like liquidy appearance. So lipstick and lip gloss have different effects. In a sentence, you have a lot of lipstick. The next expression is foundation. Foundation is the makeup product. It is applied to the skin usually of the face. So it's used to make the face seem like all one color foundation. Maybe people apply it with, I don't know, like a spongy thing or with their hands or a brush. There's like, I forgot what it's called. It's like a sponge, I don't know. Something. Is it a beauty blender? Is that a thing? I think so. I don't know, I'm the wrong person. I don't know, is a beauty blender a thing? I'm not very good at the beauty stuff either. Anyway, foundation is intended to make your skin color appear even foundation. So it's called foundation because it's like the base, the foundation for the rest of your makeup. So the foundation is the kind of the basis. So once your skin color is all correct and the same than the other parts, we can fix the other parts. That's my theory anyway. In a sentence, there are a few different types of foundation. All right, the next expression is blush. Blush is usually applied on your cheeks and it's like a pink or red color. It gives the appearance of blushing. So when we feel embarrassed or maybe we feel excited, our cheeks might turn red. So blush is makeup, which creates that effect of blushing. This is usually a pink or red color to simulate to make it look like you're blushing, even if you're not really. In a sentence, do you wear blush? The next expression is bronzer, bronzer. So we talked about blush, which is supposed to give your skin the appearance of being pink or blushing. Bronzer gives skin the appearance of being more bronze or more tan. So you can apply this maybe in summer and it makes your skin look a little more tan, which you might like. Other people also may use bronzer to create shadows because it makes the skin a little bit darker in the places where it's applied. So there are a few different ways to use bronzer. In a sentence, bronzer is nice in summer. The next word is face wash, face wash. So this is a special soap that's for your face, specifically for the face. Maybe your face is very sensitive or you have some trouble spots or I don't know. There's a specific wash you use for your face only. In a sentence, a good face wash is important for clear skin. Oh, the next word, the dreaded, I have a couple words here that are maybe problems all of us deal with. The first kind of problem word on this list is acne. Acne is an uncountable noun. Acne refers to, usually this is a problem happens for like teenagers or people around that age, but adults can also have acne. Acne is like imperfections in the skin. Sometimes they're itchy or they're painful, red bumps on your skin or maybe they're not painful but they're just blotches or a number of different ways that acne can be an issue, which we'll talk about in the next word too. But acne as an uncountable noun is just about that problem, skin problem in general. Acne, bad acne. In a sentence, I had acne when I was a teenager. So the next word for today, there are two words here. There's pimple and zit. These are both words we use to refer to the individual parts of acne. Acne, we can say I have bad acne or maybe my acne is improving today, but acne is maybe the whole condition of your face, like everything, your face's situation. Each part, each one of those little problem spots, we call that a pimple or a zit. The difference, pimple sounds a little bit smaller usually. Zit sounds a bit bigger and maybe more painful. So, but either way, pimples and zits are both words we can use to describe acne. So in a sentence, I hate getting pimples. 10 words you can use to talk about hygiene or cleanliness. So let's be in. To wash your hands. The first expression is to wash your hands. To wash your hands is with soap and water in the restroom somewhere. So wash your hands before cooking or wash your hands after using the toilet, for example. In a sentence, wash your hands after using the bathroom. To shower. The next expression is to shower, to shower or to shower, or maybe you prefer to take a bath. So to shower is usually standing up, though you can do it sitting down, depending on the country you live in, I suppose. To shower is that, yeah, the water just hits you continuously. To take a bath is you sit in the bathtub. You sit down and you are surrounded by water. That is a bath. I'm surrounded by one. Sitting down, surrounded by water, in your home on purpose is a bath. If it's not on purpose, you should probably call plumber. Because that is not a bath. That is an emergency. Ooh, all right. In a sentence, I shower every day, or I love taking a bath every once in a while. To brush your teeth. The next expression is to brush your teeth. To brush your teeth. So with a toothbrush, usually in the morning, maybe at night as well, you brush your teeth. You clean your teeth. In a sentence, make sure to brush your teeth in the morning to style your hair. The next expression is to style your hair. To style your hair means to arrange or to fix your hair the way you like it. So today I styled my hair like this. You styled your hair like that. I, tomorrow, maybe I'll style my hair in a ponytail. I probably won't. Maybe you can style your hair in a mohawk, or in a foo-hawk, or in a boof-fond. Boof-fond. That's that focus. Yeah, it's focusing. Yeah, that's a boof-fond. All right, so to style your hair in a sentence, it takes a long time to style my hair. That's true. My hair is naturally explosive, and so I have to straighten it before everything. And then as soon as humidity gets it, it goes ffff. It makes that sound too. To shave. The next expression is to shave. To shave is to remove hair, like if you're a man here, usually. To remove the hair here with a razor, with another like a blade of some kind, or maybe you remove body hair or hair on your legs, whatever. We use the verb to shave, to shave, with a razor. In a sentence, shaving is a pain. Or sure, meaning shaving is troublesome. Soap or cleanser. The next word is soap or cleanser. So soap is just used to clean your skin, or yeah, to clean your face, maybe, to clean your hands. We do not use soap for the stuff you use to clean your teeth. Soap is used for like body cleaner, or maybe what you use to wash your clothes. So soap or a body cleanser. In a sentence, I like nice smelling soaps and cleansers. That is true, who does not? Deodorant. The next word is deodorant. Deodorant. So deodorant is the product you might put on your body to prevent unpleasant smell. So usually it goes in this region. So this is called the arm pit, this region. So arm and then pit. So like, yeah, kind of this cave-ish area in your arm. We call the arm pit. But it's common to apply deodorant here. You might put it in other areas on your body. But the goal is to prevent bad smells, or to, in some cases, just stop sweating completely. So this is deodorant. Well, deodorant actually, if I'm going to be strict here, deodorant is used to stop unpleasant smells. Anti-persperant is used to prevent sweating. So, persperant comes from perspire. So to perspire means to sweat, anti means not or stop. So an anti-persperant is a product to make you stop sweating. So deodorant is the smell one, anti-persperant is the sweat one. Sometimes you can buy a deodorant and anti-persperant together. Woo-hoo, great. In a sentence, wearing deodorant is important, especially in summer. Mouthwash. The next word is mouthwash. Mouthwash, I hope, is easy to understand. It's wash. It's something to clean the inside of your mouth. So you can use this in the morning, maybe, after you brush your teeth, or after lunch, maybe, to keep your breath smelling fresh. But it usually isn't like a blue or a green, or maybe an orange color, and kind of has a minty or a citrusy taste, but you put it in your mouth and kind of swish, like, I don't know, I can't swish nothing. You swish it around in your mouth, and then spit it out, and that's mouthwash. So you've washed your mouth with this product. In a sentence, I like minty mouthwash. Toothpaste. The next word is toothpaste. So toothpaste, we do not say like tooth soap or tooth cleaner or whatever. We use toothpaste for the product to clean our teeth. The product we use to brush our teeth is called tooth paste. So in a sentence, I need to buy more toothpaste. Shampoo and conditioner. The next expression is shampoo and conditioner. So shampoo and conditioner are commonly used together in the shower or in the bath, maybe. Shampoo usually comes first. We shampoo, shampoo is soap for your hair, really. And then conditioner is a treatment for your hair. Conditioner is used to make your hair feel softer or more moisturized. So oftentimes they are used for shampoo and then conditioner together, as a set. So in a sentence, I like trying new shampoos and conditioners. Wanna speak real English from your first lesson? Sign up for your free lifetime account at EnglishClass101.com. Gossip, let's go. Oh my God. So the first phrase is, oh my God. So, oh my God. So is an introductory phrase you can use to start your topic with like a surprise factor. So you say, oh my God. And then so is your transition phrase. So for example, oh my God. So I have to tell you about this movie I saw or oh my God. So I saw my neighbor in the shopping mall this morning or oh my God. So did you see my new dog? Kind of weird. Usually it's about a person, not about a dog, but who knows? You won't believe what happened to me the other day. The next expression is, you won't believe what happened to me the other day. You won't believe what happened to me the other day. Meaning something happened to you and you think it's going to be a surprise to the person listening to you. You won't believe what happened to me the other day. So it's a very fast phrase because it sounds like you want to share very quickly. Like you won't believe what happened to me. You can drop the other day if you wanting or you can say you won't believe what happened to me this morning. You won't believe what happened to me last night. You won't believe what happened to me this weekend. You won't believe what happened to me over my winter vacation so that you won't believe what happened to me gets very very quick and short. So example, you won't believe what happened to me the other day. I ran into my ex boss, or you won't believe what happened to me the other day. I tripped and fell down a flat of stairs, or you won't believe what happened to me the other day. I got a new parrot. Sure, I don't know. Maybe one of you can use that. Guess what? The next phrase is very short. The next phrase is like an exclamation, so an excited statement and a question. Guess what? Guess what? So guess what is inviting the listener to guess what happened to you? Guess what? The full question would be, guess what happened, or guess what happened to me. But we only say, guess what? So guess what? And sometimes the listener guesses, and sometimes the listener just says, what? Usually the listener just says, what? As so meaning you should continue the story. So if you say, guess what? I quit my job, or guess what? I saw my best friend with a new guy I haven't seen before. Another example. Guess what? I got a new car. Something like that. So some kind of shocking, like difficult to guess situation. I haven't told you about this yet. The next expression is, I haven't told you about this yet. I haven't told you about this yet. So have not becomes, haven't. I haven't told you about this yet. So maybe you've told, you have told other people, but this specific person, maybe you have not told that person your news or some information yet. But this yet implies you are planning to, or you want to tell them this. So it's kind of creates a little suspense. I haven't told you about this yet. So we could use this, like, I haven't told you about this yet. I'm going to France next summer, or I haven't told you about this yet, but I broke up with my boyfriend last night. Or I haven't told you about this yet, but I'm throwing a big party for my coworker this weekend. Can you come? Other examples? I haven't told you about this yet. I saw my boss out for dinner with someone who's not his wife. Oh my God, that's not true. That's not true. Or I haven't told you about this yet. I heard that the company is going to go bankrupt. Also not true. Okay, so those are some pretty juicy gossip. That's an expression we use. We say juicy gossip is something that's like really, really interesting gossip or a really interesting story about people. We say juicy gossip for that. Have you heard about the next expression is have you heard about blah, blah, blah? Have you heard about can be followed with a noun phrase? Have you heard about a person? You can use a person or have you heard about a situation? You can use both. You can use an object too. So have you heard about the new iPhone or have you heard about the new office policies? You can use that for pretty much anything. You want to inform your listener about. So have you heard about is usually said very quickly? Have you heard about? So the you becomes shortened to yeah. Have you heard about, have you heard about blah, blah, blah? So have you heard about the new secretary? Have you heard about our new boss? Sir, have you heard about my coworker quitting his job? Have you heard about the neighbors above us? They're moving. So you can use people here for gossip expressions or you can use objects in this expression just to introduce something new. Very useful phrase. Have you heard about my mom? Sorry mom, I don't know why you came into that one. Okay. So the other day, the next expression is kind of like the beginning to a story. So maybe this can be for gossip. Maybe it can just be like a story, something interesting or maybe boring that happened to you. The expression is so the other day, so the other day, so the other day, the other day here means not today, some other day, which day it doesn't really matter. It's not really important, but we say the other day, some day in the past, this expression is used for it. So we can say, so the other day, I was sitting at my desk in the office when my manager came and asked if he could speak to me. Dun, dun, dun, dun, or so the other day I was shopping and I ran into my ex-boyfriend. Or so the other day I was renting a car and the former president of the United States came into the car rental shop. What? All right, so the other day, just some day in the past. So I was talking with, and the next one you can use, maybe for gossip sometimes, but also you can use for making plans. So I was talking with someone and blah, blah, blah. So I was talking with someone, means you were having a conversation at another time with a person and you want to kind of report information or share something from that conversation with the person listening now. So I might say, so I was talking with Risa and I think that we should plan a party for this weekend, what do you think? So I was talking with my team about this and I think that we should make some changes. So that's a very kind of everyday work situation use of this phrase. But you can also use it for gossip. Like, so I was talking to my best friend and I think I'm gonna move or I was talking to my parents and I think it's best if we break up. Oh, so it can be for plans, it can be for gossip, it can be for just any conversation, plus a report. What's up with the next expression is kind of a little like mysterious. Then the expression is what's up with blah, blah, blah. Usually what's up with person for gossip. Meaning there's like the nuance here is there's some problem where it seems like something's wrong with this person, they're unhappy, they're sad, they're angry, some kind of negative emotion. We use this so it's like, what's up with Stephens? I haven't heard from him lately. What's up with your brother? He seems really upset or what's up with your neighbor? Why is he so noisy or what's up with your boss? He's so strict. So it sounds like there's some problem. We usually use this intonation. What's up with, what's up with, to introduce somebody who has a problem? We don't say, what's up? It's not that sort of hello expression. It's an expression for a problem. You can also use a noun phrase that is not a person here. What's up with this new office policy or what's up with this new rule at work or what's up with this new item on the menu at this restaurant, it's super weird. So what's up with blah, blah, blah has sort of a negative nuance. You can use it for people to talk about strange behavior. What's up with you? Have you heard from lately? The next expression is have you heard from blah, blah, blah, lately? Have you heard from person lately? Have you heard from Stevens lately? I haven't seen him. Have you heard from your mom lately? Have you heard from your dad lately? Have you heard from your brother lately? Have you heard from your landlord lately? I don't know why you hear from your landlord, but have you heard from someone lately? There's sort of an predetion that you in contact with the person involved in this sentence. Like you have some relationship, maybe it's a family relationship, romantic relationship, professional relationship, there's some relationship with this person and lately it's like have you heard from them recently lately in the last few days in the last few weeks. So you can use this if for example you are looking for someone or you're worried about someone you can use this here. You can also use it just to check in about some other person without asking that person directly. So like if I want to ask about I'm using Risa in my example, Risa is our Japanese channel host. If I want to ask about how Risa is but I don't want to ask Risa, I know maybe she's busy or I don't know for some reason I it's difficult to talk to her. I can ask like a coworker I can say hey have you heard from recently? It seems she's really busy or have you heard from so and so lately? It seems they're busy. So if I want to ask about another person but I don't want to bother this person or that something makes it difficult I can use have you heard from blah blah recently or lately to ask about them. Very useful phrase. I have to tell you about next expression. The next expression is I have to tell you about blah blah blah I have to tell you so have to becomes have to. I have to tell you about has a nice, hmm mmm sound. I have to tell you about blah blah blah or I have to tell you about something. So I have to tell you about my weekend I have to tell you about Stevens. I have to tell you about my mom. I had to tell you about my boyfriend. I have to tell you about my girlfriend. Whatever it is. Some person used at the end of the sentence sentence creates a nuance like there's exciting news about that person. Or I have to tell you about this thing that happened. You can use a situation at the end of the sentence too, but you're using I have to at the beginning of the sentence. So that sounds like it's really important. Like I feel it's so important. It's my responsibility to tell you because this is so exciting. Of course you can use this in more boring situations as well. Like I have to tell you about the new office policy. You can use it in that way with a very flat intonation, but for gossip purposes use I have to tell you about blah, blah, blah. It sounds really good. So what do you have to tell somebody about? I have to tell you about this new idea I have for a business. Or I have to tell you about what happened to me last night. Okay. So there are these really exciting ways that we can introduce things that happened or that we can talk about people or whatever. Okay, ten words for talking about space, planet. The first word is planet, planet. So planets are those really, really big things that we have in our solar system. Now they're officially eight because Pluto is no longer considered a planet. In my example sentence, Pluto used to be considered a planet. Star. The next word is star, star. So stars are those very, very bright objects that you can see in the sky sometimes at night. The closest star to us is the sun. The sun is a star and we can see a lot of other stars if we look up into the night sky sometimes. In a sentence, it's hard to see stars from big cities. Solar system. The next expression is solar system. Solar system. So solar system in our case here on planet earth refers to the system of planets and objects which are near our star. So our solar system now there are eight planets in our solar system used to be nine planets. Sorry again, Pluto. Eight planets in our solar system and then we can talk about other objects which maybe enter our solar system like a, like a, comets for example or a meteor or some other events might happen in space within our solar system. So our solar system is the area surrounding our sun and our planets that we know of. In a sentence, mercury is part of our solar system. Comet. The next expression is comet. A comet is actually an icy body that is slightly melting and then releasing gases. So that's what produces that look. A comet. Okay. In a sentence, comets are really cool. Meteor. All right. So the next word is meteor, meteor or just meteor. So essentially meteors are different from comets because comets are made of ice. Meteors however are made of rock. So these are two different kinds of objects that can, that move around in space. In a sentence, lots of meteors burn up before they pass through the atmosphere. Meteor right. The next word is meteor right. Meteor right. So this is an important distinction that many people don't know about actually. They've strived to be crazy too. So a meteor is the space rock. It's in space or it's in the atmosphere. A meteor right however is the rock if the meteor makes it, if the meteor can pass through the earth's atmosphere and fall to the surface of the earth. That rock then is called a meteor right. So in space, in the atmosphere, it's a meteor. When it falls to earth, it is a meteor right. That becomes a meteor right when it hits the earth. So fun facts. Okay. That's the difference between the two. In a sentence, have you ever seen a meteor right? Supernova. Supernova. Supernova. So the explosion of a star is a huge event. A supernova is the name of it. So the star explodes and that's what we call it. It's called a supernova, a star explosion. In a sentence, supernovas must be incredible things. Black hole. Ah, alright. The next expression is black hole. Black hole. Black holes are the subject of a lot of study. They have intense gravitational pull, so meaning they have very strong gravity. Black holes will pull other objects into them. It is said that like a time stops in a black hole. Or like if you get too close to a black hole, if you get too close to the event horizon of a black hole, you yourself will be pulled into that hole too. It's pretty crazy. So like the event horizon is the point at which there's no turning back from like you can't, you can't escape essentially. The gravitational pull of a black hole once you're within the event horizon of that space. It's like crazy. You're done for. All this kind of stuff. So interesting. So in a sentence, black holes are mysterious galaxy. Okay. Ah, alright. So the next word is galaxy, galaxy. Before we talked about the expression solar system, so solar system is kind of our region of space. The region we're familiar with. The next step up, so if you think of the solar system as kind of your neighborhood a little bit, you could think of maybe the galaxy as like your city or your country. Maybe it's sort of the next step out. So a galaxy is made up of lots and lots of stars, maybe other planets, other solar system, many other solar systems in one galaxy. So I think, yeah, we belong to the Milky Way galaxy, I believe. In a sentence, our galaxy is made of lots of different stars and planets. Earth. The next expression is earth. Earth. Earth is our planet. Earth is the planet we live on. Earth is, yeah, habitable, meaning humans can live here. This word, I included it in this vocabulary list because it is a very good word to practice your pronunciation. It is the word earth, earth. That r and the th sound can be difficult to pronounce together. Earth. So this is a great word to use to practice your pronunciation. Earth. So in a sentence, our planet is called earth. Ten words for talking about sleep. Let's go. To wake up. The first word is to wake up. To wake up is to open your eyes, probably in your bed or the place where you are sleeping. To wake up is to become conscious. To become awake. Every day you wake up, presumably, hopefully. In a sentence, I woke up three times last night to get up, to get out of bed. Alright, the next word is to get up or to get out of bed. So that means to physically move your body from your bed, out of bed, to stand up from your bed, to get out of your bed. We say to get up or to get out of bed. In a sentence, I got up at 8 o'clock this morning to snooze. The next word is to snooze. So we have to snooze and alarm and also to snooze. So to snooze means to take a short sleep, to have a short sleeping time. Or to snooze and alarm is when your alarm goes off in the morning, you have a button. Most alarm clocks have some button. You can press so the alarm will turn on again in like five or ten minutes or something. So to snooze and alarm is to like to ask your alarm to wake you up again a few minutes later. That's to snooze. So we have to snooze and alarm and to snooze, meaning like a short light sleep. In a sentence, I always snooze my alarm at least once. That is usually true. To oversleep. The next word is to oversleep. To oversleep means to sleep too much or to sleep late. Actually, no, it doesn't mean to sleep late. To sleep late means just to sleep until a late time in the day. Oversleep means sleeping beyond the time you wanted to get up. So for example, if my alarm is set for 8 o'clock but I wake up at 9 o'clock, I oversleeped. I slept beyond my wake up time. So we can use oversleep to talk about times when you sleep too much. You sleep more than your body needs you to. So maybe your body needs depending on the person like six to nine hours or so. But if you sleep like 14 hours, we can say that's oversleeping. You're sleeping too much. That's the nuance here. In a sentence, I overslept on my first day of work. NAP. The next word is NAP. NAP is a short sleep. So a nap is maybe 30 minutes, one hour, just a short sleep, a short rest. So a lot of people will take a nap in the afternoon, for example. Or maybe children actually take naps, for example, in preschool or when they're very, very young. They have an afternoon nap, a short sleep. Like, yeah, just like an hour or so. I imagine. In a sentence, I love naps. Actually, I do like naps. I don't like naps because when I take a nap, it becomes a sleep. It's always like, I wake up four hours later and I'm like, okay, well, I've destroyed my sleep schedule. Dream. The next word is dream. Dream. So dreams are those visions, those images you see, those experiences, it seems like you have when you are asleep. In a sentence, I always have weird dreams. Nightmare. So the next word is nightmare. Nightmare is a word which means bad dream or scary dream, negative dream. So children maybe have nightmares a lot. They wake up crying or they're really upset by nightmares, monsters, terrifying things happening and so on. In a sentence, do you ever have nightmares to go to bed? The next word is to go to bed. So before we talked about to get up or to get out of bed, this is the opposite. To go to bed means to get in your bed, to try to go to sleep, to go to bed. In a sentence, I usually go to bed fairly late to hit the hay, to hit the sack. The next expression is kind of a slang expression. We have to hit the hay and to hit the sack. It's both mean to go to bed. They both mean to try to fall asleep but we just use them in more casual situations. The image here of hit the hay is with your body hitting hay, like laying down in hay. I believe historically because hay was used to stuff things that people slept on. So that's why we have this expression to hit the hay with your body. Same thing for to hit the sack. So a sack full of something soft to sleep on is where this expression comes from. In a sentence, I think I'm going to hit the hay to fall asleep. The next expression, it is to fall asleep. To fall asleep, you're in bed and you finally, you lose consciousness. You stop being aware. You are asleep. In that moment, we say you fall asleep. In a sentence, it takes me a long time to fall asleep. Alright. Want to speak real English from your first lesson? Sign up for your free lifetime account at EnglishClass101.com. Top 10 must know prepositions and conjunctions for English learners. Let's get started. Two. Two. I threw the ball to my dad. Two is sort of directional. He's saying that it's going towards something. I wrote a letter to my mother. I went to the mall. I went to the park. My mom asked me to go to the store to buy some bread. To a destination. To a person. From. From. From is the opposite of two. From implies where it's coming from. The place of origin. So if I'm going to the mall, I'm coming from my house. This letter is from my daughter. From. How long does it take you to get from your house to your job? Two and from. They go together. With. With. With. It means together with something. I am at the movies with my friend. I went out to eat with my friends. I go shopping with my boyfriend. With means you are together with something. I like to have grilled cheese with tomatoes on it. I'm here with my book. At. At. At is a very short word. I always go to bed at 11 o'clock if I'm lucky. I usually go to bed at around one in the morning. Unfortunately, get very little sleep. At specifies a time or a place. Let's go to the movies at. Two in the afternoon. I'm at home right now. Where are you? We decided to meet at the beach. It's a pinpoint of time or location. In. In. In. Means you are inside of something or in the middle of something. It means being immersed in something. I am in bed right now. The cat is in the box. The child is in the tree. The plane is in the sky. I graduated school in 2019. In. On. On. I left the book on my desk. On means on top of. I like ketchup on my fries. So that means my French fries are here and I like to put ketchup on them. The man is on the roof. The car is on the street. The motorcycle is on my nerves. But. But. I think I remember her name, but I'm not sure. But. Is a way to add a negative to a sentence. So for example, I really love eating cake, but I don't eat it often because it's not healthy. I'd love to go to the movies with you, but I have too much work to do. I really like you, but I don't want to date you. And. And. And is a very common word you will hear all the time. It's a way of adding on a new subject or thing to your sentence. I love candy and pizza. I'm hungry and I'm tired. My friend moved to Spain and I moved to Canada. I love playing outside and I love being inside. And is a way to add on a new subject or thing to what you're talking about. So. So. I have a toothache, so I went to the dentist. So is a way of adding an example, another way to say, because of this, I did this. You say something and then you add so. And then what follows is the effect. So there's the cause, so the effect. So I was feeling very hungry, so I had some pizza. This video is going to be pizza themed, everyone, apparently. I was really tired, so I took a nap. I was in the mood for some adventure. So I got on an airplane and flew to Mexico. That sounds nice. Or. Or. Or is a way of presenting a choice. So for example, you can either have pizza or you can have candy. I don't know if I should go to the movies or if I should go to the mall. What color do you like better? Red or green? It presents differences of choice. Today's video is on words Americans overuse. I haven't seen these words yet, but apparently it's going to be a series of words that we as Americans, I'm American, we overuse, we use too often. So let's start. Oh, the first word is definitely. It's definitely a word that Americans overuse. We use it to put emphasis at the end of a phrase, put emphasis at the end of a sentence, as in, oh, that party last week was so great. Yeah, definitely, or to agree with somebody like that. Oh, God, literally. Oh, just in the last few days, I've seen the word literally so many times on the internet and used in just such stupid ways, the word literally means actually or truly something. This is literally the best hamburger I've ever eaten. So literally, meaning truly or actually, would mean that in that person's entire life, that is the best hamburger they've ever eaten. However, it gets misused a lot in sentences. Like George Bush was literally supporting the war in Iraq or something like that. Taking a phrase like that literally would have to mean that, you know, the president, the former president would be physically supporting a war with his body. Onward? Onward. Hilarious. Hilarious is the next word. I like to use the word hilarious when something is actually funny. Hilarious, of course, means something that is really funny, super funny. It's a step above funny, maybe two steps, three steps. I don't know. However, people like to use this word in place of laughter. So for example, friends are talking. And instead of just laughing, the friend will say, that's hilarious. Well, if it's so hilarious, just laugh. Oh, this must be the last one. Because this is the worst one. This word is like. I've probably said it several times already today for the purposes of this video. The word like is used as a filler word. So the same as something such as um or a or hmm, for example, we use like as a filler word when we're trying to think of something. It's not uncommon to hear the word repeated, like three, four, five times in a row when someone is thinking. They'll say, oh, you know that party that I went to? Like, like, like, do you know who is there? It just invades your speech sometimes when you're trying to think of something and no other filler words come out, but the word like does. Ah, this wasn't the last word. There is another one. Seriously. Seriously, it's used. Oh, it's good for any time you receive bad news. Well, not from your boss. It's a really casual word. But if you hear something like your friend lost their job and you can sympathize with them or maybe empathize with them by saying, seriously? Oh, that's too bad. Or, oh, tell me. Like, all your problems. Oh, my God, I just use like, ah, God. I hate myself. Generic trademarks. Oh, these are all examples of brands that where the name of the brand has become synonymous with whatever the brand product itself is. This is going to be fun. Jekuzi. Oh, really? Jekuzi is a brand? I didn't know that. See? Okay. Jekuzi is a hot tub, essentially. It's just, it's a type of hot tub. But so many people have come to know that Jekuzi equals hot tub. But Jekuzi now just means hot tub, even though it's the name of the brand. So you might say, hey, come over to my house this weekend. We're all going to have a, no. You might say, oh, I just bought a new Jekuzi. Do you want to come in? No, that's creepy too. I'm thinking about buying a Jekuzi. Do you have any recommendations? Next. Chapstick. You might use Chapstick. I use Chapstick. Chapstick is just a brand of lip balm. So whenever your lips feel dry or when they feel chapped, you put Chapstick on your lips. In a sentence, you might say, I carry my Chapstick with me everywhere. I love it. Kleenex. Kleenex is another great example of a brand that now equals a product. Oh, here's Kleenex. Is this actually Kleenex? No. This is ascule. Can you see it? No, this is actually, this is not Kleenex. But we'd probably refer to this as Kleenex. Yeah, tissue. There are just tissues. It's not even made by, I'm made by Kleenex. Can you pass me a Kleenex? Next is Post-its. Oh, Post-its are very useful. They're just a small notepad. Here's another one. There's some notes written on it already. This is a small one, also not made by Post-it. But it's the same sort of thing. It's just a piece of paper that has a sticky back and you can stick it to things. But Post-its now people will ask for a Post-it instead of just a sticky back note. Paper. I guess I guess Post-it is an easier thing to say. What else would you call it if not a Post-it? Sticky paper? Or glue note? I'm waiting for you, entrepreneurs. Next is Band-Aids. This was the first one that I thought I've actually when I saw this topic. Band-Aids, when you get hurt, when you get a paper cut, it's that little piece of kind of tapy bandage that you peel stuff off of and then you stick on wherever you've just hurt. But that thing is just called a bandage, right? It's a sticky bandage. There are a lot of sticky things. Most of the time I think when you get a paper cut or something at work or at school or whatever, they'll say, oh my gosh, do you need a bandaid? There's words that vary by region. Creak. I say creek. You might hear the word creek. Crick. The word creek means a small river, essentially. There's a creek in my backyard, for example. The next word is coyote. I say coyote. How do other people say this word? Coyote. Oh yeah, coyote. I don't say that. Coyote is kind of a dog-like animal to wild animal about the size of a dog with a howl at night. I'm an organ where I'm from. I definitely heard them at my house. Last night I heard the coyotes out in my pasture. Okay, the next word is root, ro-ut-e. Root. So how I say it, you might also hear the word pronounced route. Root ro-ut-e means the way through a city or a town or some kind of path in other words. Ro-ut-e, which this word sounds like, is the system that's at the bottom of a plant that plant uses to get nutrients, you know, with little hairy fibers. I am so good at explaining plant biology. Oh, I know a good route to get from school to the park later. Let's take that on our bicycles. That was oddly specific. The next word is apricot, or you might hear apricot as well. It's a fruit. So you might say, hey, did you bring any apricots to the picket? Picket to the picket? Apricots, no. Apricots. Picket, on the other hand, is a word that means protest. There's a freebie in there. For example, you might say, hey, I really like those apricots you brought me the other day. They were delicious. Okay, the next, ooh, the next word is caramel. I say, I think I say caramel. Oh, this is making me doubt myself. There's caramel and there's caramel. They both refer to sugary, sweet substance that's often a type of candy or often inside a type of candy. It's really, really delicious. So you might say, oh, my favorite kind of candy is caramel. Or my favorite kind of candy is caramel. Just depends on where you're from. Apparently, in the east coast, they say caramel. On the west coast, it seems we say caramel. That sounds about right to me. You can choose, these are the aren't cool anymore. Woohoo! I probably say a whole lot of these phrases, so I'm about to embarrass myself. The first phrase is sweet. Oh, sweet's not cool anymore. Sweet means cool. Sweet means something that's good. You might say, oh man, that skateboard trick you just did was sweet. Groovy! I still say groovy. Groovy means cool. Groovy means good. It was used in the 70s when funky groovy music was popular in a sentence like, oh, hey, those are some groovy moves on the dance floor. I don't know who can use that. Going steady is kind of an old-fashioned phrase as well. Going steady just means you're dating. Someone who is dating someone else. Like me and Trisha are going steady. What just means you're dating? You're a couple. Not. Oh, this word is actually what the entire holiday of April Fool's Day is based around. That's a lie. Particularly, I would say for junior high school students, this phrase is very popular. They might say something like, hey, Steve thinks you're cute. Not. So in other words, it's often used as an insult. Duh. Oh, duh. Duh. Mmm. Duh is used when someone says something really stupid or something really obvious. So if you say something like, oh, hey, it's raining. The other person who can also maybe look out the window you're both sitting in front of might say, duh. Because you've just indicated something very, very obvious. You can also use duh to make fun of yourself when you do or say something really stupid. As soon as you realize this, you can go, duh. Yeah. Intermediate Latin phrases. This is going to be fun. Bonified. It sounds like an American thing. Like we bastardized that word a bit. Bonified then means something that's genuine or something that's truly representative of something else. So if someone says he's a bonified gentleman, for example, it means he's truly a gentleman. I don't hear this word very often, at least among the people I spent time with, perhaps, you might hear, especially in an old movie, I think. Vice versa. Vice versa means basically it just means to switch positions of something. So you might say, oh, I could come to your house and then we could go, no, this is a terrible example. I could go to your house or vice versa, meaning you come to my house. So saying vice versa, it leaves the listener to fill in the opposite of whatever else you're saying. Yeah, that's actually kind of a useful phrase that's still used quite a lot. I hear a lot in kind of business English. Alma Mater. Alma Mater? Alma Mater? It just refers to the college that you graduated from. So whatever it is, whatever your university is, you could be from Harvard University, you would say, oh, Harvard is my Alma Mater. That's it. Carpe Diem. Carpe Diem. Carpe Diem means seize the day. So it's kind of a motivating phrase. You can say it maybe when you leave the house for work, for example, if you're feeling like you need an extra bit of motivation, you might say, ah, Carpe Diem, to yourself. Status Quo. Status Quo refers to the norm or whatever is the regular in society. For example, right now, let's see, what's the status quo? I don't know. Politics. I don't want to be around anybody. So maybe in one place, the status quo might be to eat vegan. Maybe, oh, it's, you know, eating vegan is the status quo. We're going to look at some common English idioms. Let's begin. The first word or phrase, rather, is about to. About to means you're going to start something. You're going to begin doing something. For example, I'm about to start explaining this idiom to you. Hey. Okay. The next word or phrase idiom, the next idiom is by the way, the word here they've used is incidentally. It's a way to transition to another topic that's related to what you're talking about. For example, this week, I'm going to a party. By the way, did you hear about the party happening next week? So there's somewhat related. Mm-hmm. Okay. The next idiom is in a way. In a way. This is kind of, in a way, it was a good thing that the burrito shop was closed because otherwise I would never eat in way too much. You can use this to show that there may be two sides to a situation. Maybe some things are negative, maybe some things are positive. Next is, on the other hand, I hear this a lot. On the other hand is a way of just saying, however, or to share two different sides to a story. For example, I think my co-worker is really irritating. On the other hand, at parties, he's really funny. So you can show two maybe different sides to a point with this phrase. Next is, a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as an idiom. This is a long way to just say, actually, or really. It's a little bit more formal sounding, so you might use it in a business meeting, for example. Everybody at the business meeting might feel a little bit unsure about the previous month's sales. And you can begin your presentation by saying something like, I know everybody was a little bit unsure about last week's or last month's sales performance, but as a matter of fact, things improved. Want to speak real English from your first lesson? Sign up for your free lifetime account at EnglishClass101.com. Want to finally start speaking in your target language? In this guide, you'll discover the top seven ways to practice speaking on your own with our lessons. Let's begin. Number one, shadowing. Shadowing is a proven learning technique where all you do is repeat what you hear in order to practice speaking. So access any audio or video lesson on the site and press the play button to start. Then, as you listen or watch, just repeat the conversations. Or even easier, read a long out loud with the dialogue section. The script is right there in front of you. With our lessons, you can master entire conversations, just like that. Number two, read out loud. I just mentioned it, but reading out loud is another powerful tactic and deserves its own mention. With every lesson, you get written transcripts and translations. So as you play the lesson, read the dialogue out loud as you hear it. Why? By reading out loud, you're also practicing your speaking skills. You can do this with the lesson notes. The lesson transcript or the dialogue tool. With the dialogue tool, you can listen to each line again and again. And repeat out loud until you master them all. Number three, speed up your reading to speed up your speaking. Being able to speak without thinking is a sign of language mastery. If you're talking to a native and can respond quickly, they'll assume that you're fairly fluent. How can you do this? When you read out loud, try increasing your speed a little bit every time. So, start by reading with the dialogue tool. If you're like most learners, you'll read the first line slowly. That's because you're still getting used to the words, which is okay. Re-read it. On your second try, you know most of the words, and you'll read a little faster. Re-read it again. On your third try, you'll be even faster. At a native speaker's speed. And being able to read these phrases out loud and fast will help you speak fast. Number four, record and compare yourself with native speakers. In order to sound like a native speaker, you must imitate native speakers. So here's how. Access the voice recorder. Which is in the dialogue study tool in every lesson. Click on the microphone icon. Listen to the native speaker's audio. And then record yourself. You can then compare the two recordings side by side. And practice and try again and again until you perfect your pronunciation. Number five, get feedback from our Premium Plus teacher. If you're learning by yourself and don't have access to real teachers, then you can always get feedback from our Premium Plus teachers. With my teacher tool, you can record yourself speaking and send the audio file to the teacher. They'll review it and tell you what to improve and how. That's it. Number six, level up your speaking with Premium Plus assignments. With Premium Plus, you can also get assignments that cover reading, writing, listening, and even speaking from your teacher. These assignments can be tailored to your goals and needs. You get a new one every week. Or anytime you're ready for a new one. Number seven, get even more lessons in the lesson library. If you want even more lessons on speaking and conversations, visit our lesson library. And under category, choose conversation. You'll get all of the pathways and lessons that are focused on speaking. How to curse like an English native speaker? Piss a slang term for urine. For example, don't piss your pants. You can say this when you're really scared or anxious. For example, if you're about to go on stage to make a speech or perform, someone can say, don't piss your pants. You can do it. Pist off to be really angry. When I'm angry, I can say, hey, I'm really pissed off at you right now. Why did you do that for? User. Use to describe an uncool person. In high school, my friends and I would use this a lot. And we would say, hey, loser, how's it going? Idiot. Used to insult people by saying they're non-intelligent. Of all the mean things that you can say, this is on the lighter side. But people still use it. Shoot. This is used to show disappointment or frustration without using a stronger curse word. Shoot. I spilled my coffee. Shut up. You can use this when you want them to be quiet or there's something surprising that you just heard. You can say, shut up. No way. Take it off to be really angry. You can say this with pissed off. So this is actually an older term. Not many people use this as much anymore because most people actually just use pissed off. Full. This is similar to saying someone is like a clown. You can say, you're acting like a fool right now. Jerk. This is a light insult used to describe someone who is mean. For example, if there's someone bullying another person, that person is being a jerk. Whip. This means someone who isn't strong. There is a movie out right now called Diary of a Wimby Kid. Have you seen it? Not. I haven't yet. 10 ways to say hello in English. Good morning. Good morning is the first thing you say to someone when you see them in the morning. Good morning, sir. Would you like a cup of coffee? Good morning. Could I please get some orange juice? Good morning. I'm still tired from the night before. Hello. Hello is the most common greeting you'll hear. That and high. Hello is a polite, nice way to greet someone when you see them. Hello. Everyone says it. You cannot go wrong saying hello. Hello can be used at any time of the day, no matter whether it's morning or at night or at 4 a.m. When you see someone, you can say hello and it will still be appropriate. Long time no see. Long time no see. It's not necessarily grammatically correct, but it's a saying that we have. Hey, long time no see. What it means is that you haven't seen that person in a long time. So it literally means long time no see. Long time no see is something you say to someone when you haven't seen them in a while. Hey John, long time no see. How are the wife and kids? How have you been? Hey, how have you been? I haven't seen you in a long time. How have you been? Is asking someone how they're doing and how they've been for the past. However long if you haven't seen them in a while. You might say, hey, long time no see. How have you been? How have you been? That's past tense. It implies that you haven't seen them in a while and you want to hear about how they are and how they've been for all of that time that you haven't seen them. Hey, long time no see. How have you been? How are you? How are you? It means how are you doing? How are you feeling? How is everything? It's a standard thing that you might say to anyone. Even if you've seen them the day before, you might see them today and say, hey, how are you? How's it going? Hey, how's it going? How is it going is a more informal way to say, how are you? So how are you and how is it going? They mean the same thing. It's asking how you are doing, how you are feeling. Is everything okay with you? What's up? What's up is another way of saying, hey, how is it going? But this one is even more informal. So you might say this to friends. Hey, what's up? And they'll say nothing, just living my life, you know, day in and day out. Hey, what's up? Hey, what's up? Good afternoon. Good afternoon. How are you? Would you like some lunch? Good afternoon is a polite way to greet someone in the afternoon. So if you run into your boss, you might say, good afternoon. It's very nice, it's polite. Not a lot of people say it to their friends, but it's a polite way to greet someone. Good evening. Good evening is a nice way to greet someone in the evening time. You can only use this phrase in the evening because it's wishing someone a good evening. It's saying hello at a certain time of day. Good evening. Would you like some dinner? Good evening. Have you eaten yet? All of my examples involve food, it seems. It's nice to meet you. It's nice to meet you. This is something that's very common to say the first time that you meet someone. You might shake their hands and say, hi, it's nice to meet you. My name is Bridget. My name is. It's telling that person that you are happy to be meeting them. It's a pleasure to meet them. Hi, it's nice to meet you. Hi, everyone. I'm Gabriella. How are your English listening skills? In this video, you'll have a chance to test them out with a quiz. First, you'll see an image and hear a question. Next comes a short dialogue. Listen carefully and see if you can answer correctly. We'll show you the answer at the end. Are you ready? A woman is asking a store clerk something at a bookstore. Which book does the woman want to see? Excuse me, I'd like to take a look at a book on that shelf. Which book would you like? The one about cars. One moment please. This one? Yep, that's right. Here you go. Which book does the woman want to see? A woman is asking a store clerk something at a bookstore. Which book does the woman want to see? Excuse me, I'd like to take a look at a book on that shelf. Which book would you like? The one about cars. One moment please. This one? Yep, that's right. Here you go. A man and a woman are looking over a menu at a restaurant. What's the man going to order? What are you going to order? The pizza looks delicious. I think I'll go with that. I had pizza yesterday, so... Okay then, what about the hamburger? Sounds good. I'll go with that. What's the man going to order? A man and a woman are looking over a menu at a restaurant. What's the man going to order? What are you going to order? The pizza looks delicious. I think I'll go with that. I had pizza yesterday, so... Okay then, what about the hamburger? Sounds good. I'll go with that. A man is calling the doctor's office. What time does he need to be at the doctor's office by? Hello, how can I help you? What time do you close today? We close at 6 o'clock, but please come in before 5'30. Okay, thank you. What time does he need to be at the doctor's office by? A man is calling the doctor's office. What time does he need to be at the doctor's office by? Hello, how can I help you? What time do you close today? We close at 6 o'clock, but please come in before 5'30. Okay, thank you. A boy is reading from his journal. What was the first thing the boy was going to order? What was the first thing the boy did today? The weather was great today. I went swimming this afternoon at the pool, and I went to a movie in the evening. I also studied all morning. Today wasn't bad. What was the first thing the boy did today? A boy is reading from his journal. What was the first thing the boy did today? The weather was great today. I went swimming this afternoon at the pool, and I went to a movie in the evening. I also studied all morning. Today wasn't bad. A woman and a man are looking at a photograph. Which photo are they looking at? This is a photo of the soccer team your son is on, isn't it? Which one is your son? This one. Oh, he's the tallest one. Yep, he's even taller than the coach. Which photo are they looking at? A woman and a man are looking at a photograph. Which photo are they looking at? This is a photo of the soccer team your son is on, isn't it? Which one is your son? This one. Oh, he's the tallest one. Yep, he's even taller than the coach. Did you get it right? I hope you learned something from this quiz. Let us know if you have any questions. See you next time.